---
layout: post
title: My H/FOSS Preferences
---
The readings for up to this point have been talking about open source software, predominantly talking about FOSS.  Even though the advantages of open source software are known to us after taking 362, it was good to get a refresher on them. For example, the global public good is a section that was interesting. I like that with open source software, since it is open to view and work on, it is less likely to have hidden features that would be undesirable if a customer were to find out about it. Because of the openness of the software we are also able to help form where we think the software should be heading. Not a definite say, but if we didn’t like the direction that it’s headed, then we could always just make our own personalized branch. Another one of the advantages of FOSS that I really like is related to the last one that I mentioned, but is the political neutrality. This is just the openness of the software that I mentioned earlier which allows users to know what is going on in the software. 


For our team’s project, we exhausted the options on the HFOSS and decided to go with some other option instead. After looking through GitHub for some potential condidates for projects, we decided to go with one of the following three options: Musescore, Freemind, and Sonic Visualiser. We chose these because they were well documented on GitHub as well as looking like they will be relatively simple to build and work with. These choices also contained sections for bugs that are either documented in the project or user submitted ones. The top choice currently is the music score software: Musescore. This program allows users to create and play music scores on their computers. It interested our group because it is a program that we can easily visualize and we understand how music scores work. Because of this, we thought it would be easier to understand what the bugs were talking about and how to go about finding them in the source code and then fixing them.
