---
layout: post
title: I'm Git'n it 
---

I've been using GitHub off and on for a little over a semester now and I'm definitely still a beginner to how everything works. I understand everything conceptually more or less, but actually working with it still gets confusing at times. As I mentioned in my last blog post, the reading for last class made me realize that I hadn't properly completed the setup for the project, so I had to go back and figure out how to set the original master branch as the upstream and then update my fork. Luckily it was an easy process and I got it working within a couple of minutes.  I am pretty curious as to whether or not branch masters get overwhelmed with bigger projects checking that everything works and managing all of the merge requests. It seems like that would be a full job with 2 or 3 contributors, but on a project with 50 people all submitting minor bug fixes, it seems a miracle that they ever actually get incorporated. I might just be overthinking it though.   

The reading for this class was mostly getting set up on GitHub and a tutorial on using it. Since I'm relatively familiar with it already, it was mostly a refresher. I'm actually doing this blog using GitHub as per recommendation from my 462 professor, Dr. Bowring. It was a little tricky to get it working and I still don't have all the pages working. Jekyll uses markdown, which from what I can tell is a pretty simple language. Unfortunately I'm still having trouble making new paragraphs though... My first three blogs (hopefully not this one) are all a jumbled mess of attempts to try to fix spacing, but they're legible at least. Another cool thing about blogging on GitHub is that they count towards my contributions and makes me look active. Hopefully soon, that activity will be actual contributions to open source projects, but for the time being, it makes me feel like I'm doing something if I have lots of green boxes on my profile.     

As far as version control, I definitely prefer Git over svn. Last semester when we were working with subversion, I remember running into all sorts of issues. Namely having all four members of our team who had no clue how to do anything version control related. There were times where we'd got to bed after a night of programming, wake up the next morning to find that another teammate was trying to figure it out and deleted the entire repository right before class. It was hectic at times, but we always got our deliverables in on time and eventually everyone learned how to use it semi-effectively. With GitHub I don’t have to worry about anyone messing with my fork, it’s my own little fork that I can mess around with and push back to the master after I’ve completed it. Although I enjoyed svn for learning version control, I think I’m going to stick with Git for the time being.
