---
layout: post
title: H/FOSS Experiences and Reflections
---
<br />
The readings for this class included the article "The Cathedral and the Bazaar" by Eric Raymond. What the 'Cathedral' and 'Bazaar' refered to in this text were the concepts of how important software was to be built. Raymond says that he believed they should be built like Cathedrals, maticulously and beautifully crafted by "wizards or small bands of mages working in splendid isolation". Although this does give a pretty cool image or software engineers as wizards, it also closes off the field to anyone who is not a top level wizard or one who is not familiar with the same magic as the cathedral was being built with.  
<br />
Linus Torvald's idea was very different from Raymond's. This is where the 'Bazaar' comes into play. He believed that development should be by several people working how they please towards a shared goal. So the Linux community resultingly ended up looking like a Bazaar of programmers and engineers working how they pleased all towards to a shared goal. This is where we get open sourcing from. It worked so well and at such speeds that Raymond changed ideas and began working on the 'Bazaar' style of development. I share many of the same concerns that Raymond did about open sourcing, but as I learn more about it, I realize that my concerns are either easily explained or easily remedied. I remember that one of my biggest concerns when beginning working with open source software was that it would be incredibly hectic and there would be no form of structure. After learning a bit about it, I saw that version control took care of all of those issues. All in all, I'm enjoying working with open source in the very limited amount that I've done, but am looking forward to practicing much more this semester in 462.  

2.4.4. Exercise - Install a new FOSS Tool and Blog About It  
<br />
For this exercise, I installed Musescore. While it's not a software from the given FOSS list, it's the software that my team will be working on for the group project for the semester. Everything is very well documented and it has clear installation instructions. After I forked myself a copy of it on GitHub, I just needed to build it. I was a little nervous going into it because of how difficult it was last semester, but everything went smoothly on the first try. I'm looking forward to working on this software.