---
layout: post
title: Chapter 7
---
The homework for this chapter was to answer questions 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3. They were related again to the RMH database that we've done a couple of exercises on before. Much like the other exercises, much of the work for the exercises in the downloaded code was already completed.

<br>
7.1. Give an example of how a RMH Homebase table violates normalization criterion 5. Give another example of how a table violates criterion 6. Explain why either of these anomalies can cause a problem when updating one of these tables.

Criterion 5 states that “Every entry in the table has exactly one value of the appropriate type”. DbShifts violates this criteria by having column named “persons” which contains multiple distinct values while storing both id and the name of the person.

Criterion 6 states that “No attribute in the table is redundant with the primary key”. DbSCL violates this by having the values in primary key containing date and time listed also in another column of the same table.

These could cause problems when more data is entered to the tables and the user wasn't very careful about how the information is being entered. For example, if a user were to add multiple values to a table where one of the related tables stores those values in a single column, it would result in some of the keys being missmatched and misplaced.

<br>
7.2. Develop and unit test the functions get_shift_month, get_shift_day, get_shift_year, get_shift_start, and get_shift_end for the dbShifts.php module that are called by the new get_shift_name_from_id function shown in figure Figure 7.14.

This portion of code was already completed in the downloaded version.
 
<br>
7.3. Design, implement, and unit test the changes to the database modules required by the new feature Item 4: Calendar month view in the “wish list” described in Appendix B.

From what I could tell, this exercise was also for the most part, completed in the downloaded code. All that we had to do was make some minor adjustments to dbWeeks.php and then adding the new module to the framework