---
layout: post
title: That could be me in x years!
---
   
The alumni symposium was overall a successful event in my opinion. They had a large diversity of speakers from many different backgrounds. The presentations were short enough to get the valuable information out, but not so long as to make it boring or repetitive. There was plenty of seating and food for everyone there so there were no people trying to find seats or rushing to make sure that they got food. The transitions from getting food to eating to listening to the presenters to questions and then finally to the socializing portion flowed well and there weren't notable hiccups or miscommunication in the process.

<br>
The speaker that I found most interesting at the event was Semmy. I met him over the summer while taking a 392 course in San Francisco. He had very different views on what programming is in the "real world" vs.. What we're currently learning in school. I expected this to an extent, but hearing it from someone who works in THE place to be for software engineering, I realize that I really need to start learning some of these things on my own. I'm not sure what I want to do with programming once I get out of college, but I'm looking forward to experimenting in the industry to decide what I like doing. Semmy brought up Javascript as the hottest language to know right now, but haven't really done anything with it. I know all of the alumni there had opinions on different languages depending on what you do as a career, but I think I'll probably go through a phase of my life where I want to be in Silicon Valley working on the new and hottest software. The other speakers were all interesting, but didn't really catch my attention in regards to their fields of work. The advice they have was all very useful and solid and I will be looking into it to try become as "marketable" as possible.