---
layout: post
title: Chapter 8
---

This chapter was about designing good user interfaces. UI, along with GUI have always been a topic that has been interesting to me. While GUI has more to do with the graphics portion of a UI, the UI itself is more focused on the interaction between user and interface. A couple of the main focuses here are simplicity, and security. Simplicity, because we need to focus on the user's experience while using the product. If they're unable to navigate and they're not up to the challenge of spending the time to learn the UI, then they're not likely to enjoy your product. Something that comes to mind when I think of bad ui, is myCharleston. Sure, it's gotten better over the past couple of years, but as a whole it's still not very user friendly. The main cofc.edu page has made major improvements, but I still have trouble finding what I'm looking for in myCharleston even after being here for four years. I've seen other education sites with terrible UI and it seems to be a recurring theme. It seems like there would be more focus on making a pleasant user experience on their sites if they're already spending rediculous amounts making the campus look pretty. There are also many UI flaws with many apps I have used. Most all problems I've encountered have been due to an overcluttering of the screen.

<br>
Taking a step over to the security side of UI. We've learned in some of our classes that SQL injection is a common way of accessing, modifying, or deleting data from a database. Preventing this goes along with having a good UI. If you have an area to type in data that users can submit, then it's important to make sure that people aren't able to access the data by SQL injecting. This can be prevented by using your javascript to parse user input to search for characters that are common in attacks. This could be something as simple as only allowing a single word with only letters in a 'first name' field. This would remove the options of using things like 'SELECT * FROM' to access the data.